[MUSIC PLAYING]
Let me show you FLIP, a way
to convert from animating
using expensive properties
like top, left, width,
or height, which trigger
Layout and Paint, to cheaper
compositor-only operations,
like transform and opacity.
It's super useful when
you have an animation that
needs to adapt to
responsive breakpoints
and which you can't
hard code ahead of time.
Firstly, we take a
snapshot of our element
at the start or first
position using something
like getBoundingClientRect.
Then we make any
style changes we need,
which will set our element to
its final or last position.
Now our element is
in the last position,
but we can make it
look like it's still
in its first
position by applying
a transform that inverts the
change that we just made.
Finally, we can make the
element have its own compositor
layer with will-change
transform, which
means that the compositor
and GPU can help us out
with the animation.
And then we switch on
transitions on transforms
and remove that invert
transform that we applied.
This plays the animation
from first to last.
So there you have it.
We just swapped animating
expensive properties
for cheaper ones.
If you want to know
more, check out
the description below for my
post on flipping animations,
as well as the FLIP.js
helper on GitHub.
[MUSIC PLAYING]